Comprehensive Technical Specification and Implementation Roadmap for Real-Time Bidirectional Multimodal Sign Language Translation Systems
1. Executive Summary and Strategic Imperative
The convergence of advanced computer vision, generative artificial intelligence, and edge computing has created a singular opportunity to dismantle the communication barriers isolating the Deaf and Hard-of-Hearing (DHH) communities. With an estimated 1.3 billion people living with some form of disability globally 1, the development of robust, real-time assistive technologies is not merely a technical challenge but a societal imperative. This report serves as a definitive architectural blueprint and implementation guide for constructing a Real-Time, Bidirectional Multimodal Sign Language Translation System.
This system is designed to facilitate seamless, unstructured communication between signers (using American Sign Language - ASL, or other regional variants) and non-signers (using spoken/written languages). Unlike traditional unimodal tools that focus solely on captioning or isolated sign recognition, this framework integrates a holistic perception layer, a bidirectional translation engine, and a generative avatar interface into a unified, low-latency ecosystem.
The architecture proposed herein targets a critical latency threshold of under 300 milliseconds to preserve conversational fluidity.1 It leverages Google’s MediaPipe for high-fidelity holistic tracking 2, hybrid CNN-Transformer architectures and Self-Supervised Learning (VideoMAE) for robust sign recognition 1, and OpenAI’s Whisper for noise-resilient speech transcription.4 Furthermore, to ensure scalability and privacy, the infrastructure is built upon Cloudflare Workers for serverless edge signaling 5 and WebRTC for peer-to-peer media streaming 6, incorporating Federated Learning principles to refine models without compromising user data.1
This document provides an exhaustive, step-by-step technical analysis, dissecting the theoretical underpinnings, algorithmic choices, and code-level implementation details required to realize this system from scratch.
2. Theoretical Framework and Design Philosophy
2.1 The Multimodal Translation Gap
The core challenge in sign language translation (SLT) is the fundamental linguistic divergence between signed and spoken languages. Sign languages are not mere gestural ciphers for spoken words; they are fully realized natural languages with distinct morpho-syntax. For instance, ASL utilizes a Subject-Object-Verb (SOV) or Topic-Comment structure, whereas English typically follows Subject-Verb-Object (SVO).7 Additionally, semantic meaning in sign language is multimodal, derived not only from manual markers (hand signs) but critically from non-manual markers (NMMs) such as eyebrow position, mouth morphemes, and body orientation.8
Recent research into Human-Robot Collaboration (HRC) has highlighted a statistically significant preference () for unstructured, natural language interaction over rigid, command-based interfaces.1 Users in collaborative environments exhibit a "Pratfall Effect," where a system that is generally competent but transparent about its limitations (e.g., admitting uncertainty) fosters higher trust and likability than an opaque, rigid system.1 Therefore, our system is architected to handle continuous, conversational signing rather than isolated keywords, and to provide feedback loops that manage ambiguity gracefully.
2.2 System Requirements and Latency Budgets
To achieve a "complete working project," the system must satisfy the following rigorous constraints:
    1. Temporal Resolution: The end-to-end latency (Motion  Text or Audio  Sign) must remain below 300ms.1 This includes capture, inference, network transmission, and rendering.
    2. Holistic Perception: The system must track 543 landmarks simultaneously (33 pose, 468 face, 21 per hand) to capture the full lexical range of sign language.3
    3. Environmental Resilience: The system must operate effectively in diverse acoustic environments (classroom noise, SNR 15dB) and visual conditions (varying lighting, backgrounds).1
    4. Bidirectionality: Full support for Sign-to-Text/Speech and Speech-to-Sign translation.7
    5. Privacy Preservation: Video data contains biometric markers. Processing must occur on the edge or utilize privacy-preserving transmission protocols.1
2.3 The Architectural Stack
The proposed solution utilizes a microservices-based architecture to decouple perception, translation, and generation, facilitating independent scaling and optimization.

Layer
Component
Technology Selection
Justification
Perception
Motion Capture
MediaPipe Holistic (Python/JS)
Real-time CPU inference of 543 landmarks.3

Standardization
Pose-Centric Normalization
Invariance to camera distance and user height.10
Translation
Sign Recognition
Hybrid CNN-Transformer
Spatial feature extraction + Temporal modeling.1

Speech Recognition
Faster-Whisper
Optimized ASR with VAD support.11

Language Processing
LLM (GPT-4/Llama-3)
Gloss-to-Text refinement.12
Generation
Avatar Rendering
Three.js / WebGL
Browser-based 3D visualization.13
Infrastructure
Signaling
Cloudflare Workers (WebSockets)
Serverless, low-latency edge routing.14

Tunneling
Ngrok
Secure local-to-public exposure for dev.15
3. Module I: The Perception Layer - Advanced Computer Vision
The Perception Layer is the sensory cortex of the system, responsible for digitizing human movement into a structured, mathematical representation. We utilize the MediaPipe Holistic solution, which integrates pose, face, and hand tracking into a unified graph.
3.1 MediaPipe Topology and Configuration
The Holistic model outputs a dense mesh of landmarks. While the legacy mediapipe.solutions.holistic API is currently functional, it is slated for deprecation in favor of the Holistic Landmarker Task.3 For a 2026-ready implementation, the system must abstract the landmark extraction logic to be compatible with both interfaces.
The topology consists of:
    • Pose: 33 landmarks representing the gross body mechanics (shoulders, elbows, hips).
    • Hands: 21 landmarks per hand, capturing fine motor dexterity.
    • Face Mesh: 468 landmarks, critical for identifying grammatical markers (e.g., raised eyebrows for yes/no questions).8
Optimization Strategy: Running the full Face Mesh (468 points) can be computationally expensive. For Sign Language Recognition (SLR), we can optimize bandwidth by extracting only the "Essential Facial Landmarks"—the contours of the eyes, eyebrows, and lips—reducing the facial feature set from 468 to approximately 40-50 keypoints without losing semantic fidelity.3
3.2 Mathematical Normalization and Preprocessing
Raw landmark data from MediaPipe is returned in either pixel coordinates  or world coordinates  in meters. Raw pixel coordinates are highly sensitive to the user's position relative to the camera. To create a robust model, we must implement Pose-Centric Normalization.
The normalization algorithm transforms the coordinate space such that the user's torso becomes the invariant reference frame.
Let  be the raw coordinates of landmark .
We define a reference anchor , typically the midpoint between the shoulders (indices 11 and 12 in MediaPipe Pose):

We translate all landmarks relative to this anchor:

Next, we calculate a scaling factor  based on the user's torso size (distance between shoulders) to achieve scale invariance:
$$ S = |
| L_{11} - L_{12} |
| $$$$ L''_{norm} = \frac{L'_i}{S}$$
This ensures that the feature vector fed into the neural network represents the gesture geometry purely, independent of whether the user is 1 meter or 3 meters away from the camera.10
3.3 Handling Occlusion and Missing Data
Sign language involves frequent self-occlusion (e.g., hands covering the face). MediaPipe handles this robustly, but confidence scores can drop. The system implements a Confidence Gating mechanism:
    • If detection confidence , the frame is flagged.
    • Temporal Interpolation: Missing landmarks in frame  are estimated using linear interpolation between valid landmarks in frames  and , ensuring smooth motion trajectories.19
4. Module II: Data Engineering and Corpus Construction
Deep learning models require vast amounts of high-quality data. For SLR, the data landscape is fragmented. We must construct a unified training pipeline that aggregates multiple datasets.
4.1 Dataset Aggregation
We integrate three primary corpora to cover different aspects of the translation task:
    1. WLASL (Word-Level ASL): A lexicon-based dataset containing 2,000 isolated signs. It serves as the vocabulary baseline.20
    2. YouTube-ASL: A massive, continuous signing dataset utilized for Self-Supervised Learning (SSL). This dataset captures the "co-articulation" effects (how one sign flows into another) absent in isolated datasets.1
    3. RWTH-PHOENIX-Weather 2014: While German Sign Language (DGS) based, its high-quality annotations make it invaluable for training translation architectures (Sign-to-Text) rather than just classification.21
4.2 Data Pipeline Implementation
The data pipeline transforms raw video into normalized feature vectors (TFRecords or Parquet files).
Step-by-Step Pipeline:
    1. Ingestion: Iterate through video files in the WLASL/YouTube-ASL directories.
    2. Perception Pass: Run the MediaPipe Holistic extractor on each frame.
    3. Filtering: Discard sequences where hand detection is absent for >30% of frames.
    4. Normalization: Apply the pose-centric normalization described in Section 3.2.
    5. Augmentation: To improve generalization, apply geometric transformations to the landmarks:
        ◦ Rotation:  around the Z-axis (simulating head tilt).
        ◦ Scaling:  uniform scaling.
        ◦ Temporal Jitter: Randomly dropping or duplicating frames to simulate varying signing speeds.1
    6. Serialization: Store the processed sequences. While JSON is human-readable, it is inefficient for large datasets. We use Protocol Buffers or flattened binary arrays (NumPy .npy) for training speed.19
4.3 Feature Engineering: The EDUGRAM Approach
Following the EDUGRAM framework 1, we augment the raw coordinate features with calculated kinematic features:
    • Inter-finger Angles: Calculates the angle between adjacent finger vectors to capture hand shape explicitly.
    • Velocity Vectors: . This captures the dynamic aspect of signs (e.g., the difference between "fast" and "slow" movement which can change meaning).1
5. Module III: The Translation Engine - Architecture and Training
This module is the core intelligence of the system, translating the stream of geometric features into semantic glosses.
5.1 Hybrid CNN-Transformer Architecture
Pure Transformer models, while powerful, can struggle with the high-frequency noise in landmark data. A Hybrid CNN-Transformer architecture offers the optimal balance.1
Layer 1: Spatial Feature Extraction (CNN) The input is a tensor of shape , where  is batch size,  is time steps, and  is channels (543 landmarks  3 coords + kinematic features). A Depthwise Separable CNN processes each frame independently. It acts as a "Pose Encoder," compressing the sparse landmark data into a dense latent embedding that represents the static hand shape and body configuration.1
Layer 2: Temporal Modeling (Transformer)
The sequence of frame embeddings is passed to a Transformer Encoder.
    • Positional Encoding: Added to retain sequence order information.
    • Self-Attention: The Multi-Head Self-Attention mechanism allows the model to weigh the importance of different frames. For example, in the sign for "KING," the initial position at the chest and final position at the waist are crucial, while the intermediate motion is transitional. Attention captures these long-range dependencies.1
Layer 3: Classification Head
A Feed-Forward Network (FFN) with Softmax activation maps the final transformer state to a probability distribution over the gloss vocabulary (e.g., 2,000 WLASL classes).
5.2 Self-Supervised Learning with VideoMAE
To overcome the limited labeled data in SLR, we employ VideoMAE (Masked Autoencoder).
    • Pre-training: The model is trained on the massive YouTube-ASL dataset with a "Tube Masking" strategy. 90% of the spatiotemporal tubes (patches of landmarks over time) are masked, and the model must reconstruct them. This forces the network to learn robust internal representations of biological motion and sign dynamics.1
    • Fine-Tuning: The pre-trained encoder is then fine-tuned on the labeled WLASL dataset. This approach has demonstrated state-of-the-art results, achieving convergence in 3.5x fewer epochs.1
5.3 Training Protocol
    • Loss Function: For isolated signs (WLASL), we use Focal Loss, which dynamically scales the loss based on classification confidence, effectively addressing class imbalance.1 For continuous signing, CTC (Connectionist Temporal Classification) loss is used to handle alignment between unsegmented video frames and label sequences.
    • Optimizer: AdamW with a Cosine Annealing scheduler to manage the learning rate .1
6. Module IV: The Auditory Engine - Speech Recognition
To enable bidirectional communication, the system must process spoken language with high fidelity, even in noisy environments.
6.1 Whisper Architecture
We utilize OpenAI’s Whisper, a weakly supervised ASR model trained on 680,000 hours of multilingual data. Its transformer-based sequence-to-sequence architecture provides superior robustness to accents and background noise compared to traditional Hidden Markov Models (HMMs).4
6.2 Optimization for Real-Time Inference
Standard Whisper models can be heavy. To meet the 300ms latency target, we use Faster-Whisper, a reimplementation using CTranslate2.
    • Quantization: The model weights are quantized to INT8, reducing memory footprint by 4x with negligible accuracy loss.11
    • VAD (Voice Activity Detection): A Silero VAD filter is applied pre-inference. This ensures the heavy ASR model is only triggered when actual speech is detected, preventing CPU waste on silence processing.11
    • Local Inference: Unlike cloud APIs, Faster-Whisper runs locally or on the edge server, eliminating network round-trip time and enhancing privacy.4
7. Module V: The Generative Engine - Avatar and Sign Production
The final leg of the bidirectional pipeline is converting text back into sign language.
7.1 Text-to-Gloss (NLP)
English text cannot be directly transliterated to ASL. We employ a Large Language Model (LLM) fine-tuned for Neural Machine Translation (NMT).
    • Input: "I am going to the store tomorrow."
    • Processing: The LLM (e.g., a fine-tuned Llama-3-8B) converts this to ASL Gloss structure, removing tense markers and articles.
    • Output: "TOMORROW STORE I GO.".1
7.2 3D Avatar Rendering (Three.js)
To visualize these glosses, we use a WebGL-based avatar system built on Three.js.
    • Rigging: A standard humanoid rig (e.g., Ready Player Me or Mixamo) is used.
    • Motion Retargeting: Instead of storing massive video files, we store normalized motion data (animation curves) for each gloss.
    • Blending: A critical challenge is the transition between signs. We implement Spherical Linear Interpolation (SLERP) for bone rotations to create fluid, non-robotic transitions between the end of one sign and the start of the next.23
    • Face Control: The avatar includes blendshapes (morph targets) for facial expressions, driven by the NMM data predicted by the translation engine.23
8. Module VI: Network Infrastructure and Scalability
A monolithic server architecture is insufficient for real-time, low-latency communication. We implement a distributed edge architecture using Cloudflare Workers.
8.1 Signaling with Cloudflare Workers
Cloudflare Workers allows us to run JavaScript code on the "Edge"—servers physically close to the user.
    • WebSockets: We use the WebSocket API in Cloudflare Workers to establish persistent connections between the Signer and the Non-Signer clients.14
    • Durable Objects: To manage state (e.g., knowing which two users are in a "Room"), we use Durable Objects. These provide a strongly consistent storage mechanism and a single point of coordination for the WebSocket pairs.14
8.2 Peer-to-Peer Media with WebRTC
For transmitting the actual video stream (if processing is done on a remote GPU server rather than on-device), WebRTC is the standard.
    • Signaling: The Cloudflare Worker acts as the signaling server, exchanging SDP (Session Description Protocol) and ICE candidates between peers.6
    • Data Channels: WebRTC Data Channels are used to send the serialized landmark data (Protobufs) alongside the video stream, ensuring synchronization.6
8.3 Development Tunneling (Ngrok)
During the development phase, local servers (e.g., a Python inference server running on a developer's GPU) need to be accessible to the internet. Ngrok provides secure tunneling.
    • WebSocket Support: Ngrok natively supports WebSocket tunneling (ngrok http 8000), allowing the Cloudflare Worker to forward requests to a local inference engine for testing.15
9. Implementation Roadmap: Step-by-Step Guide
The following roadmap outlines the precise sequence of operations to build the system from scratch.
Phase 1: Environment and Perception Prototyping
Step 1: Environment Setup
Initialize a Python 3.10 environment. Install the core dependencies.

Bash


conda create -n sign_sys python=3.10 -y
conda activate sign_sys
pip install mediapipe opencv-python torch torchvision torchaudio --index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cu118
pip install websockets asyncio aiohttp faster-whisper sounddevice numpy pandas

Step 2: Landmark Extraction Script
Create perception.py. This script initializes MediaPipe and processes video frames.
    • Requirement: Set static_image_mode=False for video to enable temporal tracking.26
    • Optimization: Convert the image to RGB before processing.
    • Output: Extract pose_landmarks, face_landmarks, left_hand_landmarks, right_hand_landmarks.
    • Code Action: Implement the PoseCentricNormalization class to standardize coordinates relative to the shoulder midpoint.
Phase 2: Data Engineering
Step 3: Dataset Ingestion Download the WLASL dataset (JSON index and video files).20 Create data_loader.py. This script:
    1. Reads the WLASL_v0.3.json.
    2. Iterates through video files.
    3. Passes each video through perception.py.
    4. Applies Data Augmentation (Rotation, Scaling).1
    5. Saves the normalized landmark sequences as .npy (NumPy) files for efficient loading.
Step 4: Label Encoding
Map the 2,000 gloss text labels to integers (0-1999). Save this mapping as vocab.json.
Phase 3: Model Training
Step 5: Architecture Implementation
Create model.py defining the SignTransformer class using PyTorch.
    • Input Layer: A Linear projection mapping 1629 inputs (543*3) to a hidden dimension (e.g., 256).
    • Spatial Layer: A 1D Convolution over the time dimension to capture local motion.
    • Temporal Layer: A 4-layer Transformer Encoder with 8 attention heads.
    • Output Layer: A Linear layer mapping 256 features to 2000 classes.
Step 6: Training Loop
Create train.py.
    • Loss: Use torch.nn.CrossEntropyLoss (or Focal Loss if class imbalance is severe).
    • Optimizer: torch.optim.AdamW with lr=1e-4.
    • Device: Move model and data to CUDA (GPU).
    • Monitor: Track Validation Accuracy. Save the best checkpoint as sign_model.pth.
Phase 4: The Auditory Leg
Step 7: Whisper Integration
Create audio_engine.py.
    • Initialize FasterWhisper with device="cuda" (or "cpu" with INT8 quantization for edge deployment).
    • Implement a listen() function using sounddevice to capture audio into a ring buffer.
    • Apply VAD to detect speech segments.
    • Transcribe segments and return text.
Phase 5: Infrastructure and Signaling
Step 8: Cloudflare Worker Setup
Initialize a Cloudflare Worker project using Wrangler.

Bash


npm create cloudflare@latest sign-signaling

    • Code Action: In src/index.js, implement the fetch handler to upgrade HTTP requests to WebSockets.
    • State: Use a Durable Object to maintain a list of connected clients (Signer and Listener).
    • Routing: Implement a simple message relay: server.addEventListener('message', msg => broadcast(msg)).
Step 9: Local Tunneling Start the local Python inference server (which will host the Model and Audio Engine). Run ngrok http 8000 to expose the local API endpoints to the Cloudflare Worker.27
Phase 6: Frontend and Avatar
Step 10: Web Client Development
Create a React application.
    • Video: Use <webcam> to capture user video. Draw landmarks on a <canvas> overlay using the drawing_utils from MediaPipe for user feedback.26
    • Socket: Connect to the Cloudflare WebSocket endpoint. Send landmark data (or audio) and receive translations.
Step 11: Avatar Integration Install Three.js (npm install three). Load a GLTF avatar. Implement the AnimationMixer to play animation clips triggered by received Gloss messages. Use SLERP to blend between animations.23
Phase 7: Integration and Deployment
Step 12: Full System Loop
Connect all pieces:
    1. Frontend captures video -> MediaPipe JS extracts landmarks.
    2. Landmarks sent via WebSocket to Cloudflare -> Relayed to Python Backend (via Ngrok).
    3. Python Backend runs SignTransformer inference -> Returns Gloss.
    4. Frontend receives Gloss -> Displays Text -> Triggers Avatar Animation.
Step 13: Latency Optimization
Measure the round-trip time.
    • Optimize: If >300ms, reduce the frequency of landmark transmission (e.g., skip every other frame) or optimize the Transformer model using ONNX Runtime.1
10. Evaluation and Performance Metrics
To ensure the system meets the "complete working project" criteria, rigorous evaluation is required.
10.1 Quantitative Metrics
    • Word Error Rate (WER): Measures the accuracy of the transcription. State-of-the-art models aim for <10% WER on clean speech and <20% on accented/noisy speech.4
    • Top-1 / Top-5 Accuracy: For isolated sign recognition (WLASL), the target accuracy is >96.8% for Top-1.1
    • Latency: End-to-end processing time must be measured. The decomposition of latency typically involves:
        ◦ Capture & Perception: ~30-50ms (MediaPipe).
        ◦ Network RTT: ~50-100ms (WebSockets/Cloudflare).
        ◦ Inference: ~20-50ms (Transformer).
        ◦ Rendering: ~16ms (60 FPS).
        ◦ Total: ~116-216ms, well within the 300ms budget.
10.2 Qualitative Metrics
    • System Usability Scale (SUS): User studies should be conducted to assess the "ease of use." Previous studies indicate that unstructured, natural interaction yields higher SUS scores () compared to structured interfaces.1
    • Pratfall Validation: Observe if user trust is maintained when the system makes errors but recovers gracefully (e.g., by asking for clarification).
11. Ethical Considerations and Privacy
11.1 Bias Mitigation
AI models can encode bias. The WLASL dataset is predominantly composed of videos from a limited set of signers. To mitigate demographic bias, the system must be evaluated across diverse user groups (varying skin tones, lighting conditions, and clothing). The Fairness metric () should be monitored to ensure disparity across groups remains below 2%.1
11.2 Privacy-Preserving Architecture
Streaming video of users to a cloud server poses privacy risks.
    • Edge Processing: By running MediaPipe in the browser (using the JavaScript solution), raw video data never leaves the user's device. Only the abstract skeletal landmarks—which are anonymized mathematical vectors—are transmitted to the backend for translation.28
    • Federated Learning: To improve the model over time, we use Federated Learning. The model weights are sent to the user's device, training happens locally on their data (e.g., correcting a sign), and only the gradient updates (with differential privacy noise added) are sent back to the central server.1
12. Conclusion
This report outlines a comprehensive, scientifically rigorous path to constructing a real-time, bidirectional sign language translation system. By synthesizing the perception capabilities of MediaPipe, the reasoning power of Hybrid Transformers, and the scalable infrastructure of Cloudflare Edge, we address the technical challenges of latency, accuracy, and scalability.
The implementation roadmap provided herein moves beyond theoretical architecture to practical execution, detailing the specific code structures, data pipelines, and network configurations required. This system represents a significant leap forward in assistive technology, moving from static, unimodal tools to dynamic, conversational agents that empower the Deaf and Hard-of-Hearing community to communicate freely and naturally with the wider world. The path is clear, the technology is mature, and the social imperative is undeniable.
Works cited
    1. A_Multimodal_AI-Driven_Framework_for_Adaptive_Learning_of_Differently-Abled_Learners_Using_Deep_Learning_and_Real-Time_Gesture_Recognition.pdf
    2. Pose landmark detection guide | Google AI Edge, accessed January 25, 2026, https://ai.google.dev/edge/mediapipe/solutions/vision/pose_landmarker
    3. Holistic landmarks detection task guide | Google AI Edge, accessed January 25, 2026, https://ai.google.dev/edge/mediapipe/solutions/vision/holistic_landmarker
    4. This Free Whisper App Runs Fully Offline (No Cloud, No API) - YouTube, accessed January 25, 2026, https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-Z-Clxo-v-g
    5. New Workers pricing — never pay to wait on I/O again - The Cloudflare Blog, accessed January 25, 2026, https://blog.cloudflare.com/workers-pricing-scale-to-zero/
    6. aljanabim/simple_webrtc_python_client: A WebRTC Client in Python using aiortc with some useful examples. - GitHub, accessed January 25, 2026, https://github.com/aljanabim/simple_webrtc_python_client
    7. Sign language translation using machine learning - Arm Developer, accessed January 25, 2026, https://developer.arm.com/community/arm-community-blogs/b/ai-blog/posts/sign-language-translation-using-machine-learning
    8. WLASL-LEX: a Dataset for Recognising Phonological Properties in American Sign Language - ACL Anthology, accessed January 25, 2026, https://aclanthology.org/2022.acl-short.49.pdf
    9. sign.mt: Real-Time Multilingual Sign Language Translation Application - ACL Anthology, accessed January 25, 2026, https://aclanthology.org/2024.emnlp-demo.19/
    10. How to Normalize Hand Landmark Positions in Video Frames Using MediaPipe?, accessed January 25, 2026, https://stackoverflow.com/questions/78329439/how-to-normalize-hand-landmark-positions-in-video-frames-using-mediapipe
    11. Faster Whisper transcription with CTranslate2 - GitHub, accessed January 25, 2026, https://github.com/SYSTRAN/faster-whisper
    12. tobp03/live-asl-translation - GitHub, accessed January 25, 2026, https://github.com/tobp03/live-asl-translation
    13. kevinjosethomas/sign-language-processing: ✌️ An ASL fingerspell recognition and semantic pose retrieval interface (arXiv, GitHub, YouTube), accessed January 25, 2026, https://github.com/kevinjosethomas/sign-language-processing
    14. WebSockets · Cloudflare Workers docs, accessed January 25, 2026, https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/runtime-apis/websockets/
    15. ngrok | API Gateway, Kubernetes Ingress, Webhook Gateway, accessed January 25, 2026, https://ngrok.com/
    16. MediaPipe Solutions guide | Google AI Edge, accessed January 25, 2026, https://ai.google.dev/edge/mediapipe/solutions/guide
    17. MediaPipe Face Mesh - GitHub, accessed January 25, 2026, https://github.com/google-ai-edge/mediapipe/wiki/MediaPipe-Face-Mesh
    18. layout: forward target: https://developers.google.com/mediapipe/solutions/vision/face_landmarker/ title: Face Mesh parent: MediaPipe Legacy Solutions nav_order: 2 — MediaPipe v0.7.5 documentation - Read the Docs, accessed January 25, 2026, https://mediapipe.readthedocs.io/en/latest/solutions/face_mesh.html
    19. Setting-up Smoothing Filters for MediaPipe Pose Estimation Pipeline using Python: A Practical Guide | by Debasish Raut | Medium, accessed January 25, 2026, https://medium.com/@debasishraut.dev/setting-up-smoothing-filters-for-mediapipe-pose-estimation-pipeline-a-practical-guide-fcc03f462196
    20. WLASL (World Level American Sign Language) Video - Kaggle, accessed January 25, 2026, https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/risangbaskoro/wlasl-processed
    21. MediaPipe Holistic Demo - OpenVINO™ documentation, accessed January 25, 2026, https://docs.openvino.ai/2025/model-server/ovms_docs_demo_mediapipe_holistic.html
    22. Anyone know of Fast and Reliable Speech-to-Text for Real-Time Use? : r/learnpython, accessed January 25, 2026, https://www.reddit.com/r/learnpython/comments/1f36us3/anyone_know_of_fast_and_reliable_speechtotext_for/
    23. AR in the browser !. With Google's Mediapipe and Three.js | by Keno Leon | AI monks.io, accessed January 25, 2026, https://medium.com/aimonks/ar-in-the-browser-d4c7ddb707dd
    24. Build your first WebRTC app with Python and React - 100MS, accessed January 25, 2026, https://www.100ms.live/blog/webrtc-python-react
    25. Using ngrok with Websockets, accessed January 25, 2026, https://ngrok.com/docs/using-ngrok-with/websockets
    26. Media Pipe- Exploring Holistic Model | by Harisudhan.S | Medium, accessed January 25, 2026, https://medium.com/@speaktoharisudhan/media-pipe-exploring-holistic-model-32b851901f8a
    27. Quickly share ML WebApps from Google Colab using ngrok for Free - Medium, accessed January 25, 2026, https://medium.com/data-science/quickly-share-ml-webapps-from-google-colab-using-ngrok-for-free-ae899ca2661a
    28. MediaPipe: Real-Time Computer Vision Reimagined | by Prince Kushwaha | Medium, accessed January 25, 2026, https://medium.com/@p4prince2/mediapipe-real-time-computer-vision-reimagined-d22bcb173143
